government of Norway has announced it
will formally recognize an independent
Palestinian state which will enter into
Force next Tuesday Israel has strongly
opposed the move several other European
countries including Ireland and Spain
are expected to follow suit the
Norwegian prime minister says this sends
a strong message on where the country
stands on Israel's devastating war on
Gaza Israel has recalled its envoys to
Ireland and Norway in
response while prime minister Benyamin
netanyahu's government has banned Al
jazer in Israel that's why we're
reporting from Jordan and that's where
Imran Khan is joining us from he's in
Aman Imran the Israeli Prime Minister
Furious about this move which is not
exactly a surprise tell us about what
he's been
saying well we were expecting reaction
to come very swiftly but it did come
within minutes of the Norwegian prime
minister uh issuing that statement uh
the Israeli foreign minister Israel cats
ordered the immediate return to Israel
of its ambassadors in Ireland and in
Norway remember Ireland is about to
speak and uh at some point today uh they
say it's for consultations after the two
countries decision to announce their
recognition of a Palestinian state so
those ambassadors will come back uh to
Israel they'll be in consultations to
see uh what can be done about this but
it's worth going through uh the
Norwegian uh statement let me just uh
bring it up for you it began with we
believe that the two-state solution is
in Israel's best interests the goal is
to uh achieve a Palestinian State that's
politically cohesive and that derives
from the Palestinian Authority and we
believe that the two-state solution is
in Israel's best interest now they've
also given a date as you've said earlier
it's May 28th uh the PM went on to say
the ongoing war in Gaza has made it
abundantly clear that peace and
stability must be predicated on
resolving the Palestinian question we
must keep alive the only alternative
that offers a political solution for the
Israelis and the Palestinians alike two
states living side by side in peace and
security this is going to present a
difficulty for uh the Israelis in a few
different types of forms firstly uh the
Israelis really want a normalization
deal with Saudi Arabia but the Saudis
have been very clear uh they W calm in G
and they want a pathway to a Palestinian
State make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer